After reading around of the net its clear that alot people are clueless about
their Classic and cant get the right information. So here is the basic need to
know stuff for you Range Rover Classic that was built past 1989. All units of
measure are USA liquid.


Engine: The NAS (North American Spec.) Range Rover Classic came with either
a 3.9l V8 or a 4.2l V8. Its a alloy block V8. A very rugged design that can
take lots of abuse but is very sensitive to overheating. So its very important
to keep the propper coolant in the engine as well as checking the level atleast
once a week. The propper coolant is ethylene glycol (green kind), the system
holds 3gals. The Rover V8 is also sensitive to oil. Changing your oil every
3,000miles is very important. A high zinc oil, low detergant oil is key to long
engine life. Many owers prefer 20w50 in the summer and 10w40 in the winter.
A good quality oil filter is a must. The eninges slump capacity is 7qts.

Myth: The Rover V8 is the same as a Mustang 4.6 engine. False the 4.6 Mustang
engine is not a Rover V8, they are totally different engines.


Brakes: All 1990 and newer Range Rovers have a very well engineered braking
system. A important thing to remember is that the brake system uses DOT4 brake
fluid. Fluid should be changed every time you put on fresh brake pads.

Axels: The axels used on the Range Rover Classic are very strong and will suit
all of your off-roading needs. There are axel shaft upgrades and gear upgrades
avalible but for must owners the factory axels provide plenty of strength. The
Classic used a swival style axel in the front to steer. The swival housings are
filled from a different plug than the diff. The swivals hold 1pt each and the
diffs take 1.5qts each. Land Rover says to use a 80EP gear oil. 80w90 will work
as well.

Tranfercase: The most common mistake made on the Classic at service is filling
the transfer case with gear oil. The transfercase uses Dextron II transmission
fluid. Its capacity is 2qts.

Transmission: The automatic transmission uses Dextron II. A very well made and
engineered transmission that will provide you with many years of enjoyment as
long as propper fluid/filter changes are done every 30000miles. The capacity is
10qts from dry. Figure 7-8qts are needed for a filter change. The cross-member
has to be removed to drop the pan.

Power steering: The power steering system on the Classic is a common leak
point. Many owners have had good luck with Lucas stop leak in their systems.
The propper fill for the Classic's power steering is Dextron II.

When you buy your used Range Rover Classic the first thing you should do is
a complete fluid change. Its your cheapest insurance against major failures.
When having your Range Rover serviced anywhere besides a Land Rover dealership
print this out and give it to the tech. 9 out of 10 times a service center will
use the wrong fluids and cause a major failure.
